A notification system has already become a very popular feature for many applications in recent years. A notification alerts a user with important information like breaking news, product updates, events, offerings, etc. It has become an indispensable part of our daily life. In this chapter, you are asked to design a notification system. A notification is more than just mobile push notification. Three types of notification formats are: mobile push notification, SMS message, and Email.  

Design a **Notification Service** that supports sending **push notifications** to **iOS and Android devices**, as well as **emails** and **SMS messages**. The service should expose APIs or interfaces that allow other services to trigger these notifications. Focus on system components, communication flows, and scalability considerations.

1. Մինչև **չորեքշաբթի/հինգշաբթի** ուղարկեք հարցերը, 
2. իսկ մինչև **ուրբաթ** երեկո արդեն system design-ը.


# Questions:
### Functional
1. Should it work real-time?
2. Should it support scheduled notifications (e.g. send notif at 12:00pm)?
3. Does the notification need to be pre-processed before sending (e.g. replace a placeholder with the target's name)?
4. Data-Collection? e.g. how many / which emails have been opened/viewed.
5. What filtering options are required for the requests (e.g. send only to emails)
6. Keep history of requests?
### Throughput
1. How many requests per day?
2. How many targets (devices/users to send notifs to)?
3. Average size of notification data?
### Latency
1. Max delay between request, and users receiving the notification?
2. Max response time?

### Availability
1. Availability % per year?
2. Max down time?

### Legal
1. GDPR compliance?




2. Throughput?
3. Notification durability? Retry until successfully sent?
4. Realtime? (Within reasonable time)
5. Availability?

6. Availability - maximum downtime % per year?