# CAP / Brewer's Theorem
3 key components of a distributed system are:
1. Consistency
2. Availability
3. Partition Tolerance

It is possible to achieve only two of the components at a time. There is no perfect solution, you have to decide what works best for your specific use case.
## Consistency
- All nodes in your distributed system have identical data at the same time. A change to one node must be reflected across all nodes. 
## Availability
- System is always operational and responsive to all requests, regardless of what's happening behind the scenes.

SLO - System Level Objective (e.g. <300ms 99.9%)
SLA - System Level Agreement - minimum level of service we're committing to provide (e.g. 99.99% availability)
## Partition Tolerance
- System's ability to function even when a network partition occurs. Meaning, even with a disruption in communication between nodes, the system still works.



## System Resilience
To measure resilience of our system we use 
1. **Reliability** - system works correctly and consistently
2. **Fault Tolerance** - preparing for when things go wrong. How system handles unexpected unexpected failures or attacks
3. **Redundancy** - having backups, ensuring that if one part of our system fails, there is another ready to take its place.

## Speed
### Throughput
How much data our system can handle over a certain period of time.
1. Server Throughput, measured in RPS (requests per second), how many client requests a server can handle in a given timeframe
2. DB Throughput, measured in QPS (queries per second)
3. Data Throughput - B/s (bytes per second), data transferred over a network, or processed in a given period of time.
### Latency
How long it takes to handle a single request (the time for a request to get a response).
